______________________________________________________________________

                                GoldED
                          Goldware Utilities
                         The Goldware Library
                       Open Source Code License
                          21. November 1998
______________________________________________________________________


License
-------

GoldED and the Goldware Utilities are licensed under the GNU General
Public License (GPL), version 2. For the full text of the license, see
the file COPYING.

The Goldware Library is licensed under the GNU Library General Public
License (LGPL), version 2. For the full text of the license, see the
file COPYING.LIB. If necessary to comply with GPL, the Goldware
Library is also licensed under GPL, version 2.

Additionally, permission is hereby specifically given to link GoldED,
the Goldware Utilities and the Goldware Library with any software or
software library that meets the Open Source Definition, as given on
http://www.opensource.org. This includes GPL, LGPL, BSD, X Consortium,
Artistic, MozPL, QPL and most derivatives of MozPL.

However, the author(s) of GoldED, Goldware Utilities and Goldware
Library reserve the right to refuse acceptance into the official
source tree of modifications that make the programs or library depend
on software or software libraries that is not licensed under GPL or
LGPL.


Comments
--------

The additional permission to link with non-GPL/LGPL software may be
slightly controversial. The intent is to allow developers a greater
freedom to create specialized versions of GoldED. Examples could be a
GUI "KGoldED" linked with QT, a "MozGoldED" mail/news component for
Mozilla using NGLayout for displaying HTML, a GoldED with an embedded
Perl scripting engine or whatever. However, we cannot allow the core
GoldED or Goldware Library to be dependent on these specialized
versions, so developers should take care to make their specialized
modifications modular and "stubifiable" if necessary.

Parts of the Goldware Library is derived from the source of the old
Shareware CXL 5.2 library by Mike Smedley, from which I bought a
source license many years ago. I have made very extensive
modifications (for example, the original was DOS only), but much code
is essentially unchanged (gwin*.cpp). CXL was taken over from Mike
Smedley by Innovative Data Concepts (IDC), which renamed it TCXL and
continued development along somewhat different lines, which I did not
agree with (or at least not easily port GoldED to). However, it seems
that TCXL never really became successful. At least I could not find
anything new about TCXL and Innovative Data Concepts on the Internet
(as of 15. november 1998). I could not even find IDC's website, so in
this day and age where any succesful business has a website, I suspect
that they no longer exist. I even tried to find Mike Smedley, but
apparently he has vanished off the face of the earth, or has lost
interest in programming entirely. I did find some postings (on
DejaNews) on a sports newsgroup by a Mike Smedley, but I doubt that
it's the same guy.

So, even though parts of the Goldware Library technically are still
copyrighted by Mike Smedley, I see so serious problems in using them.
If anyone should happen to know Mike Smedley and how to contact him, I
would very much appreciate to get the information, so we can clear up
this issue.

Odinn Sorensen,
the Golded's author.
______________________________________________________________________
